A functional LEGO version of the classic Technics SL-1200 MK2 turntable has been submitted to the toy company’s ideas board.

If the fan-made design reaches 10,000 votes, LEGO will consider turning it into a real product and stock it on shelves around the world. It currently has 394 supporters.

The idea was submitted by Hungarian designer Tomasso Builds, who called the original 1979-released product “the most iconic and recognizable turntable ever made”.

The build contains 2,215 pieces with a design that “closely follows” the original elements of the turntable, but with a more “toy-like appearance”. The design also has several playable features that “mimic the original counterpart's functionality”.

Read this next: A designer has proposed a buildable LEGO Pioneer CDJ 2000 Nexus

“The legendary turntable that revolutionised the world of radio and dance club disc jockeys,” Tomasso wrote alongside videos of the build in action.

“Originally launched in 1972 as the SL-1200, the subsequent model, the SL-1200 MK2, was released in 1979 and quickly became the standard turntable for DJing and scratching.”

The build features a built-in motor to drive the turntable, start and stop buttons, a platter shaped to the scale of a 7” record, a working tonearm with “adjustable balance weight and anti-skating knob”, an adjustable pitch slider, and a removable 45 rpm adaptor.

“It would be a cool addition to any DJ's, music lover's, or technology enthusiast's display collection. It is a historical piece that has shaped the world we live in,” Tomasso explained.

Read this next: Daft Punk helmets could be available as an official LEGO collectible soon

Tomasso’s design isn’t the first LEGO DJ gear replica - in 2017, Berlin-based company Numode shared custom LEGO designs based on iconic analogue electronic instruments and speakers.

Kits created by Numode included the TB-303, the MPC-2000XL, the TR-808, and even an early version of the Technics 1200 along with a mixer.

More recent fan-made designs include an almost entirely LEGO replica of working DJ decks created by musician and creative Look Mum No Computer, and a LEGO version of the Pioneer CDJ 2000 Nexus, which was also submitted to the company’s ideas platform.

Support Tomasso Builds’ design here.

Gemma Ross is Mixmag's Assistant Editor